# PhysicsFormulae

This repository contains a concept project for a formulary of physics web app.

'Formulary' is a word that's not used often (you can look up the etymology of it here https://www.etymonline.com/word/formulary). As such, its meaning in modern English is somewhat vague and unknown to most people. For this project, however, it's used to mean 'a collection of formulae'. A 'formulary of physics' is essentially a dictionary of physics formulae - except rather than giving the pronunciations and meanings of words in a language, it gives the different forms of various well-known equations, and their interpretations, in physics.

This repository contains both the data for a formulary of physics, and a web app to display and navigate that data. A live version of the web app can be found at http://www.physicsformulae.com

## How the data is stored

This repository contains both the code for the Physics Formulae web app, and the data for it. Why, you might ask, is the data stored in the code repository and not in a database?

The information about each formula and constant is stored in the PhysicsFormulae.Formulae folder. The information about formulae is stored in .formula files, and the information about constants is stored in .constant files. Each .formula file contains information about 1 formula.

The .formula and .constant files are just plain text files, with a specific structure. There's actually not that much in each file. By storing the data in plain text files in the repository, it's very easy to keep track of changes to them. By not having an SQL (or other) database, it makes the app far simpler to create, and there's no need to take back-ups of the database.

The format of the .formula and .constant files has been designed to be incredibly easy to edit. The files have almost no markup (which is why they're not just XML or JSON files) - anyone could read them and understand them with no difficulty.

In order to make all of the data stored in the .formula and .constant files usable by the web app, there is a compiler. The compiler reads all of these files, and outputs the data as a single JSON file - all of the data used by the site can be found in PhysicsFormulae.Formulae/Compiled.json . The JSON file can then be very easily understood by the JavaScript-based web app.

## How does the web app work

The Physics Formulae web app is an AngularJS, single-page web app. The app gets all of its data from a single file - Compiled.json. After that, essentially all it does is display the information in a convenient way.

The main page of the app is a search page. On this page, initially, all of the formulae and constants on the site are listed. You can then search through them using the text field. This is a very basic search function that essentially just looks for matching substrings in the data for each formula.

Clicking on the title or content of a formula will take you to the main formula page for that formula. Now while the original .formula file for that formula will contain relatively little data, the formula page shows a lot more. A lot of the content is generated automatically by the app, or shown in different forms so as to be convenient.

The formula page shows you the title, content, interpretation, fields, and tags of the formula in a way that's not that different to how they are in the .formula file - they're just styled nicely. But the formula page also gives you the LaTeX of the equation as it would be in a dissertation or research paper. This data is generated by the web app, as it's just a different structure of the same data given above it. You can also click a button to copy the LaTeX to your clipboard.

Similarly, the formula page gives you the BibTeX and BibLaTeX to reference the webpage, or the references that the webpage itself references. This data is also generated automatically, and you can click to copy this data too.

And that is the essence of the web app - it's just a convenient way of navigating and using the data. It makes only one call to the server to get the data, and since that data is just a JSON file, it's not downloading a massive amount of data.